- When building out a microservices architecture,
one of the goals is agility of your development teams.
As your system grows in size,
maintaining agility of your team
in all aspects of development can become a challenge.
We all know that writing code is only one aspect
of the software development life cycle.
And while smaller artifacts make development easier,
deployments can become a nightmare.
As a rule of thumb,
you need to invest time
in building out a continuous delivery model
early in the process.
Microservices-based architectures
have so many moving parts,
that the chances of success greatly decrease
if you don't have an automated way
of building and deploying these services.
So let's take a look at what it means
to build out a CICD, or continuous integration
and continuous delivery pipeline.
A CICD pipeline starts
with the most basic aspects
of building your committed code base
in an automated fashion.
Building your code can be as simple
as executing a script
that manages the build cycle itself
to as complex as a large distributed model
of containerization and sandbox build operations.
The build step compiles
and, often, executes unit tests
to ensure that the code is ready
for further testing and deployment.
Once the build step has completed,
we often add a step of automated deployment
to a non-production environment.
This automated deployment step
moves the compiled artifact
to a runtime that often mimics production,
but does not take production traffic.
In this environment, we often see integration
and system testing occurring,
as well as security penetration testing.
These operations should provide a clear indication
of safety around moving the code to production.
Again, automating as much as possible.
So while there may be manual gates in the process,
the end goal is automation.
When the code has been sufficiently validated,
it will be deployed to production
and, through either routing techniques
or blue-green deployments,
the code will start taking production traffic.
Obviously, this is the overall goal of the process,
but in order to make it most effective,
each and every opportunity
to automate a task should be taken.
Now, you may wonder why I state
that this process should be considered a requirement.
As previously mentioned,
one of the goals of microservices is agility.
If you build microservices
but don't do the automation around delivery,
there is no real improvement in agility
when you look at the development process as a whole.
Agility is such a strong improvement in this space,
you owe it to yourself and your team
to make this a priority when moving to microservices.
Start small.
Focus on building, deploying,
and basic testing, and then expand from there.
Consider integration into your ticketing system,
your chat system, and other testing frameworks and systems.
Advanced automation include things
like self-registering your deployment
with monitoring or routing systems.
And this should be your long-term vision
to maximize the value to your team.